# Linear-Regression-Analysis
This project focuses on Linear Regression in R and potential enhancements


Even within the constantly evolving landscape of data science, the art of linear regression has remained a strong cornerstone of the field, as its ability as a data analysis technique is not to be underestimated when used in both industry and academic settings. An example of this would be a paper titled *"Stock Price Trend Prediction Using Multiple Linear Regression"*, authored by *Shruti Shakhla*, *Bhavya Shah*, *Niket Shah*, *Vyom Unadkat*, *Pratik Kanani*, and published in the **International Journal of Engineering Science Invention (IJESI)**, where the technique of linear regression is used to properly analyze and forecast stock price trends for the American company Apple. However, due to constant changes in the usage of technology and data, in addition to the every-evolving methodology within the industry, it is becomes necessary to reevaluate previously established methodology and results in order to confirm the proper utilization of linear regression. It is within this context that I present this project proposal, with the goal of analyzing and extending the results of the paper in question.


My objective is for this project seeks to evaluate and improve the clarity of the original paper through the 
meticulous analysis of both the language of this paper and the data used for this paper. This will be achieved by replicating and enhancing the results made by the researchers using the same data they procured for their 
experimentation. In the following section of this proposal, I plan to establish the specific objectives, 
methodologies, and expected outcomes of this project. 


The paper "Stock Price Trend Prediction Using Multiple Linear Regression" uses information provided from two data sets collected from Yahoo Finance, using data collected from September 30, 2016 to October 31, 2017. Both data sets have variables concerning the open price, highest price, lowest price, the close price, adjusted close price, and the total volume for each day. The paper in question only uses the variables of open price (Both Apple and Nasdaq) and highest price (Apple), where the highest price is used as the predictor and the two open prices are used as regressors. The paper goes on to construct a multiple linear regression model with the goal of predicting the highest prices for Apple from October 1, 2017 to October 31, 2017, which are dates in the data set that were selected for testing, while all of the other dates are used for constructing the model. 


In this project, I will examine and replicate the model the authors have constructed by checking the standard assumptions for multiple linear regression have been satisfied, checking to see if the model constructed actually produces prediction values as seen in the paper, and checking to see if the other values included in the data sets would further the prediction value of the model by using available stock data. In terms of the assumptions for multiple linear regression, the following will be tested on the available data sets: Linearity (the relationship between the predictor and the regressors present in the model are is independent), Homoscedasticity (Constant Variance), the errors have mean zero, the errors are uncorrelated, and there is a normality of errors. We will also be testing if the effects of certain regressors on the overall model, in addition to testing if transforming the model will lead to better results in terms of the stock prediction values we are expecting. 


Everything considered, I expect this project to accomplish the set goals of reproducing and enhancing the contents of the paper in question, as the amount of information needed for the arduous task is comprehensive enough to construct the models needed for this process. This project will test for the needed assumptions to use multiple linear regression, test for the impact of the regressors on the model, and test for data transformation in the potential enhancement of the papers findings. With this achievable timeline established outlined, the consumers of this project should expect a revised and improved model that can further the prediction value of the model established in the paper "Stock Price Trend Prediction Using Multiple Linear Regression".